docs(tutorial): Install Docker Engine on Ubuntu 22.04 (#1999)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/install-docker-ubuntu-jammy-jellyfish/index.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to install Docker Engine on a Scaleway Instance running Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS)
  description: Discover how to install Docker Engine on Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS)
content:
  h1: How to install Docker Engine on a Scaleway Instance running Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS)
  paragraph: Discover how to install Docker Engine on Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS)
tags: compute docker getting-started ubuntu jammy jellyfish docker-engine docker engine
categories:
  - compute
dates:
  validation: 2023-08-01
  posted: 2023-08-01
---

> Docker is a powerful and widely-used open-source platform that enables developers to automate the deployment, scaling, and management of applications in a consistent and efficient manner.

Reviewer: I think it would be good to add a sentence clarifying Docker vs Docker Engine somewhere, e.g. "Docker Engine is Docker's core product."

* **Docker CLI**: The Docker Command Line Interface (CLI) is a tool that allows you to interact with Docker. It provides a set of commands to manage containers, images, networks, volumes, and other Docker resources.
* **Docker Compose**: Docker Compose is a tool that allows you to define and manage multi-container applications using a YAML file. It simplifies the process of defining the services, networks, and volumes required for your application stack.
* **Containerd**: Containerd is an open-source container runtime that serves as the industry-standard container runtime interface (CRI) between higher-level container management systems (such as Docker and Kubernetes) and the low-level kernel features responsible for running containers.

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />

<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
  - You have [configured your SSH Key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)
  - You have an Instance running Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS)
  - You have sudo privileges or access to the root user.
</Message>

## Installing Docker Engine on Ubuntu Jammy Jellyfish (22.04 LTS)

> Prior to installing Docker Engine on a new host machine, it is required to configure the Docker repository. Once the repository is set up, you can proceed to install and keep Docker updated directly from the repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prior to installing Docker Engine on a new host machine, you must configure the Docker repository. Once the repository is set up, you can proceed to install and keep Docker updated directly from the repository.
```

>   - You have [configured your SSH Key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - You have [configured your SSH key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)
```

> 1. Login to your Instance using SSH:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to your Instance using SSH:
```

    ```
    ssh root@<YOUR_INSTANCE_IP>
    ```

> 2. Update the `apt` packet cache and upgrade the software already installed on your Instance to the latest version available in the repository:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Update the `apt` package cache and upgrade the software already installed on your Instance to the latest version available in the repository:
```

    ```
    apt update && apt upgrade -y
    ```

### Setting up the Docker repository

> 1. Install packages that are required to download packages using `apt` via a HTTPS connection.

Reviewer 2: maybe add "to download the required packages for Docker" or something like that to explain a bit more ?

Author: ```suggestion
1. Install packages that are required to download the required packages for Docker using `apt` via an HTTPS connection.
```

    ```
    apt install ca-certificates curl gnupg
    ```

2. Add the official Docker GPG key to validate the downloaded packages.
    ```
    install -m 0755 -d /etc/apt/keyrings
    curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | gpg --dearmor -o /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.gpg
    chmod a+r /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.gpg
    ```
3. Use the following command to configure the Docker repository:
    ```
    echo \
    "deb [arch="$(dpkg --print-architecture)" signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/docker.gpg] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
    "$(. /etc/os-release && echo "$VERSION_CODENAME")" stable" | \
    tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null
    ```

### Installing Docker Engine using apt

1. Update the `apt` packet cache:
    ```
    apt update
    ```
2. Install the latest version of Docker Engine, Containerd, and Docker Compose:
    ```
    apt install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-buildx-plugin docker-compose-plugin -y
    ```

> 3. Verify that the installation of Docker Engine was successfully by running the following command.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Verify that the installation of Docker Engine was successful by running the following command.  
```
